---
title: "Pyrene-Stabilized Acenes as Intermolecular Singlet Fission Candidates: Importance of Exciton Wave-Function Convergence"
date: 2019-12-01
tags: [Singlet Fission, Exciton Wave-Function, GW/BSE, Pyrene-Fused Acenes]

excerpt: "Paper"
---

*_Click [here](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-648X/ab699e) to view the full paper_*  

## Abstract
Singlet fission (SF) is a photophysical process considered as a possible scheme to bypass the Shockley-Queisser limit by generating two triplet-state excitons from one high-energy photon. Polyacene crystals, such as tetracene and pentacene, have shown outstanding SF performance both theoretically and experimentally. However, their instability prevents them from being utilized in SF-based photovoltaic devices. In search of practical SF chromophores, we use many-body perturbation theory with the GW approximation and Bethe-Salpeter equation to study the excitonic properties of a family of pyrene-stabilized acenes. We propose a criterion to define the convergence of exciton wave-functions with respect to the fine k-point grid used in the BerkeleyGW code. An open-source Python code is
presented to perform exciton wave-function convergence checks and streamline the double Bader analysis of exciton character. We find that the singlet excitons
in pyrene-stabilized acenes have a higher degree of charge transfer character than in the corresponding acenes. The pyrene-fused tetracene and pentacene
derivatives exhibit comparable excitation energies to their corresponding acenes, making them potential SF candidates. The pyrene-stabilized anthracene
derivative is considered as a possible candidate for triplet-triplet annihilation (TTA) because it yields a lower SF driving force than anthracene.  