---
title: "Notes on Using MongoDB"
date: 2020-09-01
tags: [MatML Workflow, MongoDB]
excerpt: "notes"
---

## Title
Notes about MongoDB, PyMongo

### Initialize, reconnect, shutdown a mongodb process
To initialize a mongodb process (creating a db), one needs use the command `mongod`. In addition, `--port` needs to be specified to occupy the the preferred port number; `--dbpath` is used to indicate the path to your db; and `--logpath` is needed to point out the log file. Personally speaking, I prefer using a config file to store these info. e.g.  

    >>> more mongodb.example.conf
    processManagement:
    	fork: true
    storage:
    	dbPath: /PATH/TO/db
    systemLog:
    	destination: file
    	path: /PATH/TO/mongodb.log
    	logAppend: true
    net:
    	bindIp: localhost
    	port: 8899
After the config file is set up, we can create/reconnect to the mongodb process.  

    >>> mongod -f mongodb.example.conf
    about to fork child process, waiting until server is ready for connections.
    forked process: 14346
    child process started successfully, parent exiting
Sometimes the db path or log file are not granted with access. You might see errors. Remember to change permission to these files/paths.  

To shutdown this process, simply add `--shutdown` after the previous command. 

    >>> mongod -f mongodb.example.conf --shutdown
    killing process with pid: 14346

After such a mongodb process is started, you can interface with the db using [PyMongo](https://pymongo.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), a Python library, if you are comfortable with Python. 

Always hold this in mind:  
*which level of the db you are dealing with?*  
This is important because functions are specific to different level of the db. e.g. under a `db`, you can have multiple `collection`, and under each collection, you will have `document`. `document` could dictionary and be directly deposit or query. A snippet of code to get you started. 

    from pymongo import MongoClient
    # connect to the mongod process, MongoClient is the interface
    client = MongoClient(host='localhost', port=8899)
    # get yourself a db named as mydb
    db = client.mydb
    # indicate the collection and named as mycol
    collection = db.mycol
    # now create a test dict and deposit it
    struct = {"structID": "ABECAL",
              "volume": 100
             }
    # and insert it using a collection function
    collection.insert_one(struct)